DOC-2524: New `tinycomments` option: Comments can be made and read, but the editor is in a readonly state. (#3461)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/partials/configuration/comments-tinycomments_access.adoc

[[tinycomments-access]]
== `tinycomments_access`

*Type:* `+String+`

*Possible values:* `'comment'`

This option controls the editor's read-only state and comment functionality.

[IMPORTANT]
====
* When `tinycomments_access` is set to `comment`, the editor will automatically switch to xref:editor-important-options.adoc#readonly[Readonly Mode].

> * Default behavior allows full editing access to both the editor and comments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Default behavior, when the `tinycomments_access` option is either not configured or set to an empty string, allows full editing access to both the editor and the comments.
```

====

> === Example: Basic Configuration
> 
> [source,javascript]
> ----
> tinymce.init({
>   selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
>   plugins: 'tinycomments',
>   toolbar: 'addcomment showcomments',
>   readony: true, // set the editor to read-only mode
>   tinycomments_access: '',
> });
> ----
> 
> === `tinycomments_access` set to undefined or an empty string and `readonly` set to `true`
> 
> When `tinycomments_access` is set to **undefined** or an **empty string**, the editor will remain in read-only mode, and the comments will be in read-only mode. This means that users cannot edit the content or add comments.
> 
> [cols="1,1,2", options="header"]
> |===
> |Editor Readonly |Tinycomments_access |Result
> |true |not specified |readonly editor, readonly comments
> |false |not specified |Default behaviour, full editing rights to the comments and editor
> |===
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== `tinycomments_access` option is either configured with an empty string or not configured at all,and `readonly` set to `true`

When `tinycomments_access` is not configured or set to an empty string and `read-only` is set to true, the editor and comments will be in read-only mode. In this state, users cannot edit content or add comments.

[cols="1,1,2", options="header"]
|===
|Editor Readonly |Tinycomments_access |Result
|true |not specified |readonly editor, readonly comments
|false |not specified |Default behaviour, full editing rights to the comments and editor
|===
=== Example:

[source,javascript]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'tinycomments',
  toolbar: 'addcomment showcomments',
  readony: true, // set the editor to read-only mode
  tinycomments_access: '' 
});
----

```

liveDemo::comments-readonly-mode[]

> == `tinycomments_access` set to `'comment'` and `readonly` set to `true`
> 
> When `tinycomments_access` is set to `comment` and `readonly` is set to `true`, the editor **will remain** in read-only mode, but the comments will be in **comment-only** mode. This means that users can add and delete comments, but they cannot edit the editor content.
> 
> [cols="1,1,2", options="header"]
> |===
> |Editor Readonly |Tinycomments_access |Result
> |true |comment |comment only mode, readonly editor, can add/delete new comments
> |false |comment |comment only mode, readonly editor, can add/delete new comments
> |===
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== `tinycomments_access` set to `'comment'` and `readonly` set to `true`

When `tinycomments_access` is set to `comment` and `readonly` is set to `true`, the editor **will remain** in read-only mode, but the comments will be in **comment-only** mode. This means that users can add and delete comments, but they cannot edit the editor content.

[cols="1,1,2", options="header"]
|===
|Editor Readonly |Tinycomments_access |Result
|true |comment |The editor is read-only, but users can add or delete new comments.
|false |comment |The editor is read-only, but users can add or delete new comments.
|===
=== Example:
[source,javascript]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'tinycomments',
  toolbar: 'addcomment showcomments',
  readony: true, // set the editor to read-only mode
  tinycomments_access: 'comment' 
});
----
```

[[tinycomments-access]]
== `tinycomments_access`

*Type:* `+String+`

*Possible values:* `'comment'`

This option sets the editor to the readonly mode, while still allowing comments to be made. 

[IMPORTANT]
====
* When `tinycomments_access` is set to `comment`, the editor will automatically switch to xref:editor-important-options.adoc#readonly[Readonly Mode].
====

> === `tinycomments_access` _is set to `'comment'` and `readonly` set to `true`_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Comments with `tinycomments_access` set to `'comment'`
```

[cols="1,1,2", options="header"]
|===
|Editor Readonly |Tinycomments_access |Result
|true |comment |The editor is read-only, but users can add or delete new comments.
|false |comment |The editor is read-only, but users can add or delete new comments.
|===

.Example
[source,javascript]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'tinycomments',
  toolbar: 'addcomment showcomments',
  tinycomments_access: 'comment' 
});
----

liveDemo::comments-ui-mode[]

=== `tinycomments_access` _is not configured and `readonly` set to `true`_

When `tinycomments_access` is not configured, the editor will remain in read-only mode, and the comments will be in read-only mode. This means that users cannot edit the content or add comments.

[cols="1,1,2", options="header"]
|===
|Editor Readonly |Tinycomments_access |Result
|true |not specified |readonly editor, readonly comments
|false |not specified |Default behavior, full editing rights to the comments and editor
|===

.Example
[source,javascript]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML

>   plugins: 'tinycomments',
>   toolbar: 'addcomment showcomments',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  plugins: 'tinycomments',
  tinycomments_mode: 'embedded',
  toolbar: 'addcomment showcomments',
```

[[tinycomments-access]]
== `tinycomments_access`

*Type:* `+String+`

*Possible values:* `'comment'`

This option controls the editor's read-only state and comment functionality.

[IMPORTANT]
====
* When `tinycomments_access` is set to `comment`, the editor will automatically switch to xref:editor-important-options.adoc#readonly[Readonly Mode].
* Default behavior, when the `tinycomments_access` option is either not configured or set to an empty string, allows full editing access to both the editor and the comments.
====

=== Example: Basic Configuration

[source,javascript]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'tinycomments',
  toolbar: 'addcomment showcomments',
  readony: true, // set the editor to read-only mode
});
----

> === `tinycomments_access` set to undefined or an empty string and `readonly` set to `true`
> 
> When `tinycomments_access` is set to **undefined** or an **empty string**, the editor will remain in read-only mode, and the comments will be in read-only mode. This means that users cannot edit the content or add comments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== `tinycomments_access` is not configured and `readonly` set to `true`

When `tinycomments_access` is not configured, the editor will remain in read-only mode, and the comments will be in read-only mode. This means that users cannot edit the content or add comments.
```
The option could be not configured, could be any values that's invalid and the `readonly: true` will still overwrite the editor state. Maybe just not configured or invalid?

[[tinycomments-access]]
== `tinycomments_access`

*Type:* `+String+`

*Possible values:* `'comment'`

> This option controls the editor's read-only state and comment functionality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This option sets the editor to the readonly mode, while still allowing comments to be made. 
```

[IMPORTANT]
====

> * When `tinycomments_access` is set to `comment`, the editor will automatically switch to xref:editor-important-options.adoc#readonly[Readonly Mode].
> * Default behavior, when the `tinycomments_access` option is either not configured or set to an empty string, allows full editing access to both the editor and the comments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When `tinycomments_access` is set to `comment`, the editor will automatically switch to xref:editor-important-options.adoc#readonly[Readonly Mode].
```

====

=== `tinycomments_access` _is set to `'comment'` and `readonly` set to `true`_

> When `tinycomments_access` is set to `comment` and `readonly` is set to `true`, the editor **will remain** in read-only mode, but the comments will be in **comment-only** mode. This means that users can add and delete comments, but they cannot edit the editor content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When `tinycomments_access` is set to `comment`, the editor will be in xref:editor-important-options.adoc#readonly[Readonly mode], but the comments will be in a **comment-only** mode. This means that users can add and delete comments, but they cannot edit the editor content.
```

> [cols="1,1,2", options="header"]
> |===
> |Editor Readonly |Tinycomments_access |Result
> |true |comment |The editor is read-only, but users can add or delete new comments.
> |false |comment |The editor is read-only, but users can add or delete new comments.
> |===

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
These are the same thing, so don't include it.

.Example
[source,javascript]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'tinycomments',
  toolbar: 'addcomment showcomments',

>   readony: true, // set the editor to read-only mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Unnecessary, `tinycomments_access: "comment"` sets the editor to readonly already, so the integrator doesn't need to use the `readonly` option.

  tinycomments_access: 'comment' 
});
----

liveDemo::comments-ui-mode[]

> === `tinycomments_access` _is not configured and `readonly` set to `true`_
> 
> When `tinycomments_access` is not configured, the editor will remain in read-only mode, and the comments will be in read-only mode. This means that users cannot edit the content or add comments.
> 
> [cols="1,1,2", options="header"]
> |===
> |Editor Readonly |Tinycomments_access |Result
> |true |not specified |readonly editor, readonly comments
> |false |not specified |Default behavior, full editing rights to the comments and editor
> |===

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Comments with `readonly` set to `true`

When not using the `tinycomments_access` option, the comments sidebar will have a different state depending on the use of the xref:editor-important-options.adoc#readonly[`readonly` option].

With neither xref:editor-important-options.adoc#readonly[Readonly mode] nor `tinycomments: "comment"` configured, both the editor and the comments sidebar will be in their default state. By default, comments can be both viewed and added, and the editor content is editable.

With xref:editor-important-options.adoc#readonly[Readonly mode] enabled, the comments sidebar will be in a **view-only** mode, meaning all comments can be viewed and navigated, but no new comments can be added. Also, in the **readonly** state, the editor will still not be editable.

```
